README.md, before:

# Arklet - A basic ARK resolver

## What is an ARK?
See https://arks.org/

## What is Arklet?
Arklet is a Python Django application for minting, binding, and resolving ARKs. It is intended to follow best practices set out by https://arks.org/.

## Running

### Locally with Postgres

Create the default `.env` file in the project's root directory

```
# /!\ Set your own secret key /!\
ARKLET_DJANGO_SECRET_KEY=[YOUR_SECRET]

# For local development, set to True
ARKLET_DEBUG=True
```

Run Postgres, install into virtual environment, and start the app:
```
cd path/to/project
mkdir postgres-data
docker run --name arklet-postgres -v postgres-data:/var/lib/postgresql/data \
    -p 5432:5432 \
    -e POSTGRES_USER=arklet -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=arklet \
    -d postgres:10
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
python manage.py migrate
python manage.py createsuperuser
python manage.py runserver
```

### Separate dockers
Using docker, we can use a [this provided](./docker/env.docker.local) config file.

See above for running PostgreSQL, and run the **Arklet** docker as follows (in *bash*):
```
docker build \
    --target dev \
    -t "arklet" -f ./Dockerfile . \
    --build-arg ENV=DEV \
&& docker run --rm -it \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    --env-file=./docker/env.docker.local \
    -e ARKLETDEBUG="true" \
    --name arklet \
    -v `pwd`/ark:/app/ark \
    -v `pwd`/ark_import:/app/ark_import \
    -v `pwd`/arklet:/app/arklet \
    arklet
```

### With docker-compose
Using the provided `docker-compose.yml` with default settings in the [docker
configuration directory](./docker) :

```
docker-compose up
```

By default, the folders `ark`, `ark_import` and `arklet` are mounted in the
container. Should you wish to attach a console to the `arklet` container (needed
to create the django superuser) :
```
# In another shell
docker exec -it arklet_django /bin/bash
# You're now in the docker container
./manage.py createsuperuser
```

### First steps
Create your first NAAN, Key, and Shoulder in the admin:
127.0.0.1:8000/admin

And by the way, you now host a working ARK resolver! You can already
try the following ones :
- [http://127.0.0.1:8000/ark:/13960/t5n960f7n](http://127.0.0.1:8000/ark:/13960/t5n960f7n)
- [http://127.0.0.1:8000/ark:/67375/C0X-SPWFRSGR-N](http://127.0.0.1:8000/ark:/67375/C0X-SPWFRSGR-N)
- [http://127.0.0.1:8000/ark:/12148/bpt6k65358454](http://127.0.0.1:8000/ark:/12148/bpt6k65358454)
- ...

Happy minting, binding, and resolving!

## Configuration Options

See arklet/settings.py for the full list of options to put in your config file.

## Deploying
### With docker
Using the provided Dockerfile (is you wish to set a build target, use `prod`, 
but being the default target you can skip this), provide the following values
in your environment:

- ARKLET_DJANGO_SECRET_KEY=[YOUR_SECRET]
- ARKLET_DEBUG=False
- ARKLET_HOST=0.0.0.0
- ARKLET_PORT=[Port of choice]
- ARKLET_POSTGRES_NAME=[DB NAME]
- ARKLET_POSTGRES_USER=[DB USER]
- ARKLET_POSTGRES_PASSWORD=[DB PASS]
- ARKLET_POSTGRES_HOST=[DB HOST]
- ARKLET_POSTGRES_PORT=[DB PORT]

Commit message:

:truck: add production deployment capabilities

README.md, after:

# Arklet - A basic ARK resolver

## What is an ARK?
See https://arks.org/

## What is Arklet?
Arklet is a Python Django application for minting, binding, and resolving ARKs. It is intended to follow best practices set out by https://arks.org/.

## Running

### Locally with Postgres

Create the default `.env` file in the project's root directory

```
# /!\ Set your own secret key /!\
ARKLET_DJANGO_SECRET_KEY=[YOUR_SECRET]

# For local development, set to True
ARKLET_DEBUG=True
```

Run Postgres, install into virtual environment, and start the app:
```
cd path/to/project
mkdir postgres-data
docker run --name arklet-postgres -v postgres-data:/var/lib/postgresql/data \
    -p 5432:5432 \
    -e POSTGRES_USER=arklet -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=arklet \
    -d postgres:10
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
python manage.py migrate
python manage.py createsuperuser
python manage.py runserver
```

### Separate dockers
Using docker, we can use a [this provided](./docker/env.docker.local) config file.

See above for running PostgreSQL, and run the **Arklet** docker as follows (in *bash*):
```
docker build \
    --target dev \
    -t "arklet" -f ./Dockerfile . \
    --build-arg ENV=DEV \
&& docker run --rm -it \
    -p 8000:8000 \
    --env-file=./docker/env.docker.local \
    -e ARKLETDEBUG="true" \
    --name arklet \
    -v `pwd`/ark:/app/ark \
    -v `pwd`/ark_import:/app/ark_import \
    -v `pwd`/arklet:/app/arklet \
    arklet
```

### With docker-compose
Using the provided `docker-compose.yml` with default settings in the [docker
configuration directory](./docker) :

```
docker-compose up
```

By default, the folders `ark`, `ark_import` and `arklet` are mounted in the
container. Should you wish to attach a console to the `arklet` container (needed
to create the django superuser) :
```
# In another shell
docker exec -it arklet_django /bin/bash
# You're now in the docker container
./manage.py createsuperuser
```

### First steps
Create your first NAAN, Key, and Shoulder in the admin:
127.0.0.1:8000/admin

And by the way, you now host a working ARK resolver! You can already
try the following ones :
- [http://127.0.0.1:8000/ark:/13960/t5n960f7n](http://127.0.0.1:8000/ark:/13960/t5n960f7n)
- [http://127.0.0.1:8000/ark:/67375/C0X-SPWFRSGR-N](http://127.0.0.1:8000/ark:/67375/C0X-SPWFRSGR-N)
- [http://127.0.0.1:8000/ark:/12148/bpt6k65358454](http://127.0.0.1:8000/ark:/12148/bpt6k65358454)
- ...

Happy minting, binding, and resolving!

## Configuration Options

See arklet/settings.py for the full list of options to put in your config file.

## Deploying
:warning: Django being Django, you have to test the _production_ build locally.
Why ? In _development_ build (ie: with `debug` turned on) Django servers the static content, while in
_production_ mode it doesn't. [Whitenoise](http://whitenoise.evans.io/en/stable/)
is used to serve the static content in _production_.

To simulate _production_ mode, just set `ARK_DEBUG` to `False` in your local environment's
configuration (or build the _prod_ build target).

### With docker
Using the provided Dockerfile (is you wish to set a build target, use `prod`, 
but being the default target you can skip this), provide the following values
in your environment:

- ARKLET_DJANGO_SECRET_KEY=[YOUR_SECRET]
- ARKLET_DEBUG=False
- ARKLET_HOST=0.0.0.0
- ARKLET_PORT=[Port of choice]
- ARKLET_POSTGRES_NAME=[DB NAME]
- ARKLET_POSTGRES_USER=[DB USER]
- ARKLET_POSTGRES_PASSWORD=[DB PASS]
- ARKLET_POSTGRES_HOST=[DB HOST]
- ARKLET_POSTGRES_PORT=[DB PORT]
